Notes by Mohamed Sallam:
1- Regarding the Metal layers, use Metal1 for both VDD/GND connections and for I/Os of the Cell, Metal2 will only be used if necessary (ex. Connections passing over a Cell), this is to minimize the number of Vias, which adds a considerable Resistance.
2- For a standard cell library, every Cell should have a width that is multiple of a standard unit, which is called "site", in our project the site will  equal to 4 lambda, that's to say every cell should have a width = n*4*lambda.The reason behind this constraint, is that in a complete standard cell library, there must be a filler cell (dummy cell) having the width of the site, such that it may be inserted into any spacing between the real logic cells to maintain a continous VDD and GND rails.

3- Regarding the sizing of the transistors, if you check our technology Spice Models (scmos18.txt) you'll find that the Mobility parameter (U0) for the NMOS = 293.5223 and for the PMOS = 120.5316 , which indicates that the Kp ratio = 2.4, this should be the ratio of sizing the PUN with respect to the PDN to have a symmetric trise and tfall as required.
You should start sizing your transistors in the schematic view, and since the Kp ratio is not an integer, you may need to do some approximation to have the nearest integer value for the width to be integer multiple of lambda. Then when you move to the layout step, it's expected that the Layout simulation results will differ from that you had in the schematic simulations, although the sizing did not change, this is due to the parasitics which is extracted from your Layout and Spice takes their effects into consideration. (Note that the sizing done in the lecture using Kp ratio is based on a simplified model of the transistor, which ignores most of the parasitics of the transistor, that's why it does not work effectively in the Layout simulations)
However, you should be near to the correct sizing, so start tweaking the sizing of the transistors in your Layout until you get the best result of symmetric Trise and Tfall, it should be an iterative process, and your simulation results should guide you for increasing/decreasing the widths.
Finally, use those final sizes in your schematic to have a clean LVS.
More Notes:
1- There are 2 independent activities that should be done for every cell :     i.  Sizing : Optimizing the size of the cell for a FO2 (i.e when it's deriving 2 identical min. sized cells) to have equal tpr and tpf.      ii. Characterization : Should be done after the sizing, in which the tpr and tpf are measured for different loads ( 1, 2 and 4 min. size inverters) .. NO MORE SIZING for the cell should be done in this step. 
2- For the sizing step :     i. Only FO2 is needed (No FO1 or FO4)     ii. The load (2 identical cells) size should be constant and fixed to its min.size, regardless any sizing done to the cell under optimization.     iii. The output of the cell under optimization, should be connected to only 1 input of each load cell (i.e for the load cells, 1 input is connected to the output and the other is tied to VDD or GND)      iv. Re-Sizing after the layout (including parasitics) is a BONUS. 
3- When measuring tpr and tpf, apply a pulse as an input to the cell,  such that the tr and tf of the pulse = 1ns, then calculate the delay from the time the input reaches VDD/2 till the time the output reaches VDD/2
4- Based on our technology design rules document (rules 6.1 and 6.2), the minimum width of any transistor will be 5 lambda. Recall that the active area width should equal to the width of the transistor, and since minimum active area contact width = 2, and the minimum spacing above and below the contact = 1.5, thus the minimum active area width = minimum transistor width = (2 + 2*1.5) = 5